# Integrated Vehicular Traffic Simulation Environment (ITE)

Integrated Vehicular Traffic Simulation Environment (ITE) is a free and open-source software for transportation scientist, engineers, academics, and managers (domain experts). ITE includes a scenario building tool to model road infrastructure and vehicular traffic in an integrated manner. ITE could be used to build and experiment novel traffic infrastructures and policies. The tool is analogous to Integrated Development Environment (IDE). IDEs are used by for software engineering to develop software systems. ITE has been developed on top of Multimodal Open-source Vehicular-traffic Simulator (MovSim). MovSim provides implementation of reference microscopic vehicular traffic models. However, it requires a comprehensive XML based input files to design a vehicular traffic scenario. It is worth noting that XML interfaces are convenient for computing experts, however, it poses steep learning curve to domain experts. Hence it is required to develop an easy to use and readily available Graphical User Interface (GUI) integrated on top of MovSim. Unavailability of convenient user interface is one issue. Another shortcoming is that building executable from source code is not trivial specially for people who do not have practical understanding of software build management. ITE solve both issues by developing a convenient Graphical User Interface (GUI) in form of ITE and by providing a readily usable executable of ITE.

# [Download Executable](https://github.com/AIMRL/TDE/raw/master/movsim-master/tdescenariodeveloper/target/TDE.exe)
# [Video Training and Demonstration](http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1juC78R3QaSIslMXgTuJgyDTKsJjpX4a)
